# Meeting Notes: Governance, Jun 04 2019

Governance meeting held Jun 04 2019 @ 3PM [UTC](http://www.timebie.com/std/utc.php) in [grin/Lobby on Gitter](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby), full chat transcript [here](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby?at=5cf687824dfb4240047b0a14). Meeting lasted ~ 60 min.

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact. 

**Community attendance:**
* chisa0a
* garyyu
* hashmap
* jaspervdm
* kargakis
* lehnberg
* mcdallas
* newtownf1
* nijynot
* quentinlesceller
* yeastplume

_(apologies if I missed someone - open a PR or contact @lehnberg to add)_

## Agenda points & Actions

### 1. Agenda review
[Proposed agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/141) accepted, with Bug bounties removed on @garyuu's request.

### 2. Action point follow ups from previous meetings

#### 2.1 Status of misc. /site improvements

* _nijynot:_ No progress yet, was thinking of starting this week with improving the site.
* _quentinlesceller:_ I started to play around, but am not ready.

### 3. [Security audits](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin/issues/1609)

* _lehnberg:_ From dev point of view, @yeastplume is tracking the stuff required in terms of fixing and improvements. On the governance side, we’ve agreed with Coinspect to do a joint press release of some sort and also co-ordinate blog posts and announce it all in a co-ordinated fashion. If anyone would like to help on this front and writing content, offering edit and review support etc - please ping me or shout here at some point.
   * _chisa0a:_ Can help with review
 
### 4. Funding status

* _lehnberg:_ As of last week, the logs [here](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/tree/master/financials) were up to date. Most recent noteworthy development is the ongoing monthly support from Sparkpool and from Poloniex.

#### 4.1 2019 Budget
* _lehnberg:_ Relevant [issue](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/130).  I worked on the budget based on last meeting’s feedback, see spreadsheet [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1VDI7-CaprFkAVkmyWwBfjRgy-irVDcq4Mgu0qfuoh-A/edit?usp=sharing
). Think I managed to incorporate all suggestions.   
   * _yeastplume:_ Looks good.

### 5. Tentative hard for timeline

* _quentinlesceller:_ Draft document [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ef7L0374gdjY9Eux4Jjr551y1EF5DEdlN2RjLq1fYP8/edit?usp=sharing). The idea is to define a very basic timeline for the upcoming hard fork. Explaining what are the breaking changes, when to expect the hard fork, when floonet is forking so everyone can be prepared. All the dates in the document are tentative.
   * _jaspervdm:_ Have floonet blocks been coming in steady? Is the proposed date in line with block height? 
   * _quentinlesceller:_ All the dates in the document are tentative but basically it looks like it would be 15/06, I updated the date yesterday. Will update regularly but right now the hard fork of floonet is not in the code and is just defined [here](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin/pull/2866) AFAIK. The timeline is tentative and the idea is to publish this in the forum and point users, exchanges etc there.
  
### 6. Promotion of other projects

No updates.

### 7. Grin evangelism

No updates.

### 8. Governance working group

* _lehnberg:_ We’ve been tossing around ideas to improve the way we work across the project
and I’d like to invite anyone who’s interested in thinking about this and potential ways to work on improving governance and stewardship to partake. Any concrete proposal will be vetted by the community, but would be good to get more people involved already now
so ping me, or reach out publicly, would be nice to put together a little group working on this.
   * _chisa0a:_ From the outside, things seem to be running smoothly. what are the pain points?
   * _hashmap:_ Less people outside. :)
   * _lehnberg:_ Nothing too dramatic in my view, but I think about how we can get more people engaged in general. In areas they are passionate about. We’re getting together to discuss dev and governance twice a month. but maybe we’d like more things to talk about more often. And help people get more engaged in specific areas, and in the process become perhaps a bit more decentralized.
   * _yeastplume:_ Indeed, the idea of more working groups for separate areas has come up.

### 9. Slogan change to "no more funny money"

* _lehnberg:_ @0xb100d propose that we change our slogan to "no more funny money":
   > Just want to pop idea of a slogan change from the unofficial “better money” ( since it is/was a Chaum trademark) to “no more funny money” or some other alternative.

   I personally don’t have much to comment, I don’t think “better money” was 'official'. Before we go down the brainstorming hole on slogans, again - there’s no official motto of the project, and if you want to improve on copy on website etc - submit a pull request.

### 10. Other questions

* _lehnberg:_ @newtownf1 wrote: 
   > Ease of use developments for users?
   > Users and exchanges

   I presume this is something in line with “it would be nice if Grin could become more easy to use for users, in junction with depositing and withdrawing from exchanges" or at least that’s my free interpretation of this. Which I whole heartedly agree would indeed be nice.
   * _jaspervdm:_ If there are concrete ideas, happy to hear them out.
   * _hashmap:_ To be fair I’d like to have a dialog with exchanges. Granted we are not the easiest to integrate with, but they could improve it with our help. People are frustrated with a particular exchange and project it onto Grin, I’d like to reduce probability of such cases.
      * _lehnberg:_  God idea, I’ve thought about something like that as well. we have emergency communication channels set up, but would be nice to have non-emergency channels as well. Would also be a good way to do Q&A for these participants regarding network upgrades and so on and be able to let them know of developments. Shall we have a single group for pools and exchanges? 
      * _yeastplume:_ Yeah and we can make results of the communication publish even if it's a private group. Sensitive info can be redacted. Would definitely like to see a similar method of reaching out to the wider wallet developer community, but that's a separate group.
      * _lehnberg:_ @hashmap let's work on this offline you and I, we can set something up for keybase and see how it goes.

**Meeting adjourned.**
